Throughout this section, you learned a lot about routing. You know how to set up routes, to load them, both
through routerLink or programmatically, how to pass params, query params, how to use that data, how to
load different components and much more.
One important feature is left in this module which I definitely want to cover,
route guards.
So basically functionality, logic, code which is executed before a route is loaded or once you want to
leave a route.
Let's start with a simple use case,
let's say you only want to give access to your server component, your single server component or the
edit server component
if a user is logged in. Now we're not going to add a full login functionality, for this
we will later have the authentication section in this course but we will fake it for now.
Still, we want to check this before any of our subroutes here,
so servers/3, servers/1
and then also the added routes are accessed. Now manually checking this in the onInit function of our
server and edit server component would be very cumbersome because you would have to add it in both
components and if you add more components belonging to the servers feature, you would have to add this
over and over again.
So therefore, we want to use a feature built into the Angular router, running some code before the component
is loaded,
we will use the CanActivateGuard and we will do so in the next lecture.